in the last video we used excels Web service function to retrieve information from the Web
service and the information that we retrieved was exactly the information that we wanted.
This is not normally the case.
What's normally returned by the Web service is a complete XML document,
and you then need to navigate your way through this XML document to find the data that you
actually want.
The function that enables you to do this is filter XML,
and it takes two parameters.
The first is the XML that you want to work with,
and this is normally supplied by using the Web service function.
The second parameter filled XML is an expert statement.
So what is expert expert is an XML technology,
which is used to retrieve information from within an example structure in the expanse.
Statements used with filled XML are what unknown is location steps,
So a typical experts statement will consist of one or more location steps separated by the
forward slash character.
The use of location steps in experts is very similar to working with a directory structure
he started on the C drive and you going to fold a one inside folder one you find folder to
and so forth.
So in this illustration,
we're working with the branches.
But XML structure that we saw before and we use in three locations steps the first take
sister branches,
which is the root element.
The second takes us to the child element of branches,
which is branch,
and the third takes us to a child of the branch element,
which is branch manager.
There are three parts to a location step statement festival.
You specify the access that you want to travel along,
and there are quite a few to choose from the default.
Is the child access.
In other words,
you start with a parent and you look inside for one of the child elements.
The second component is called a no test,
and this allows you to specify the node or nodes that you want to retrieve.
Traveling along the specified access.
The third part of a location step is optional.
It's called a predicate,
and it allows you to filter out any knows that you don't need A from the note seven you've
retrieved by traveling along a given access and looking for a particular set of nos so it
returns while branches.
Example.
We have three locations.
Steps,
branches,
branch,
branch manager in locations.
Step one.
We travel along the child access to get to the branches element in location.
Step two,
we again travel along the child axes,
and this time our no test is branch and then in location,
Step three were again traveling along the child access and this time the no test,
its branch manager.
And,
of course,
in none of the three location steps,
do we use a predicate?
As I said,
the predicated is optional on.
We will encounter its use later.
So just to recap,
location steps are separated by the forward slash character.
Whenever you see a location step,
which appears to consist purely of a no test,
this means that the child access is being used because it's the default.
You don't actually need to specify the child access you could if you wanted to,
and this is how it would be written child fathered by two Coghlan's branches child branch
child branch manager.
But of course,
because it could be omitted,
everyone admits it so it's just written branches branch branch manager.
So that's a quick overview off X Path location steps in the next video,
we'll look at the use of expert statements in conjunction with the Filter XML function and
then in the next section,
when we discussed the use of xsl style sheets,
will see how expert is used to enable you to home in on the various parts of an XML
structure as you're performing transformations.